README.md, before:

# DV Stick Driver <!-- omit in toc -->

The DV Stick is a system with 2 RP2040s, one driving the digital video and the other running application code.

This is the repo for the "driver" side of the DV stick, which uses PicoDVI to drive the display.

## Getting it running

The driver RP2040 has no flash and is designed to be programmed over SWD either from the debugging port, or direct from the application Pico.

## Loading as from the application

The build produces a `pico-stick.h` in the `build/` directory that should be copied to `drivers/dv_display` in the [dv_stick branch](https://github.com/MichaelBell/pimoroni-pico/tree/dv_stick) of the pimoroni-pico repo.

When the DVDisplay driver is initialized it will upload this image to the driver RP2040.

## Loading over SWD for debugging

You will need an SWD connection to the debugging port on the DV stick - this is connected to the driver RP2040.  If you're on Windows the easiest way is with a RPi Debug Probe, or if you're using a Raspberry Pi you can wire it up to the SWD as normal.

You'll need to use a customised version of the OpenOCD rp2040.cfg file, because there is no flash attached, and that is assumed by the default config.  Copy the file from `openocd/target/` in this repo to scripts/target in your OpenOCD install.

This is the command for launching OpenOCD on my laptop, you should be able to adapt accordingly:

    C:\Users\mike\pico\openocd-x64-standalone\scripts> ..\openocd.exe -f interface/cmsis-dap.cfg -f target/rp2040-no-flash.cfg -c "adapter speed 5000;bindto 0.0.0.0"

Once you have OpenOCD running you should be able to load the project in VS code and launch it in the debugger - after setting an appropriate IP for OpenOCD in `launch.json` (if required).

Alternatively, you should be able to grab the elf from the github build action and program with a command along the lines of:

    gdb-multiarch -ex "target remote localhost:3333" -ex "monitor reset init" -ex "load" -ex "continue" pico-stick.elf

If you're using an application that normally loads the driver itself,don't forget to comment out `swd_load_program` in `dv_display.cpp`.

Commit message:

Add pico-stick.h to the github artifact, add credits to README.

README.md, after:

# DV Stick Driver <!-- omit in toc -->

The DV Stick is a system with 2 RP2040s, one driving the digital video and the other running application code.

This is the repo for the "driver" side of the DV stick, which uses PicoDVI to drive the display.

## Getting it running

The driver RP2040 has no flash and is designed to be programmed over SWD either from the debugging port, or direct from the application Pico.

## Loading as from the application

The build produces a `pico-stick.h` in the `build/` directory that should be copied to `drivers/dv_display` in the [dv_stick branch](https://github.com/MichaelBell/pimoroni-pico/tree/dv_stick) of the pimoroni-pico repo.  This is also saved it the github action artifact.

When the DVDisplay driver is initialized it will upload the image from `pico-stick.h` to the driver RP2040.

## Loading over SWD for debugging

You will need an SWD connection to the debugging port on the DV stick - this is connected to the driver RP2040.  If you're on Windows the easiest way is with a RPi Debug Probe, or if you're using a Raspberry Pi you can wire it up to the SWD as normal.

You'll need to use a customised version of the OpenOCD rp2040.cfg file, because there is no flash attached, and that is assumed by the default config.  Copy the file from `openocd/target/` in this repo to scripts/target in your OpenOCD install.

This is the command for launching OpenOCD on my laptop, you should be able to adapt accordingly:

    C:\Users\mike\pico\openocd-x64-standalone\scripts> ..\openocd.exe -f interface/cmsis-dap.cfg -f target/rp2040-no-flash.cfg -c "adapter speed 5000;bindto 0.0.0.0"

Once you have OpenOCD running you should be able to load the project in VS code and launch it in the debugger - after setting an appropriate IP for OpenOCD in `launch.json` (if required).

Alternatively, you should be able to grab the elf from the github build action and program with a command along the lines of:

    gdb-multiarch -ex "target remote localhost:3333" -ex "monitor reset init" -ex "load" -ex "continue" pico-stick.elf

If you're using an application that normally loads the driver itself,don't forget to comment out `swd_load_program` in `dv_display.cpp`.

## Credits

This driver would not be possible without [PicoDVI](https://github.com/Wren6991/PicoDVI) by Luke Wren - this repo is just a wrapper around PicoDVI.  The version used here has several modifications to increase speed at the cost of using more RAM - which for this system is a better tradeoff as the application is running on a different processor.

The [i2c slave library](https://github.com/vmilea/pico_i2c_slave/) is by Valentin Milea.
